
# Scholars' Lab Chef Cookbook and Vagrant Utilities

This is a collection of [Chef Solo](http://www.opscode.com/chef/) recipes that
we've accumulated at the [Scholars' Lab](http://www.scholarslab.org/) to use
with [Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com/). At the moment, the primary recipe is to
set up an Omeka installation for developing either on Omeka or on plugins or
themes. This also has a Rakefile that makes testing and working with PHP code
in the Vagrant VM easier.

## Installation and Use

### Installing Vagrant and VirtualBox

Vagrant's written in Ruby, so assuming you have Ruby and RubyGems installed, just do this:

```bash
gem install vagrant
```

Getting VirtualBox is more complicated. Check [the VirtualBox
website](http://www.virtualbox.org/) for how to install it.

### Set up a Working Directory

Once the software is installed, you'll need to set up a working directory and
initialize it for Vagrant. You'll also need to download the Chef cookbooks that
you'll use.

```bash
mkdir omeka-project
cd omeka-project
git clone https://github.com/opscode/cookbooks.git
git clone git://github.com/scholarslab/cookbooks.git slab-cookbooks
vagrant init omeka-project http://files.vagrantup.com/lucid32.box
```

The last command created a file called "Vagrantfile". (It also pointed to a
file that won't exist on your system. We're working on a URL for hosting the
base box. When it's available, use that URL in place of PATH-TO.) Go ahead and
open it up in your favorite text editor. Vagrantfile is just Ruby, nothing
scary there. We need to add a few lines. At the bottom of the file, just before
the "end," insert these:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :chef_solo do |chef|
  chef.cookbooks_path = ["cookbooks", "slab-cookbooks"]
  chef.add_recipe "omeka"

  # :omeka_version can be a version number tag (e.g., '1.4', '1.3.2') or
  # 'HEAD' or a branch name.
  chef.json.merge!({
    :omeka => {
      :version => 'stable-1.4',
      :themes => [
        {:name => 'dark', :url => 'git://github.com/omeka/theme-dark.git'},
        {:name => 'something', :url => 'http://svn.something.org/svn/themes/something/trunk',
         :type => 'svn', :svn_username => 'someuser', :svn_password => 'somepass'}
      ],
      :plugins => [
        {:name => 'BagIt', :url => 'https://github.com/scholarslab/BagItPlugin.git'},
        {:name => 'Dropbox', :url => 'git://github.com/omeka/plugin-Dropbox.git',
         :revision => 'tags/1.3-0.5'}
      ]
    }
  })
end
config.vm.forward_port('mysql', 3306, 3333)
config.vm.forward_port('apache2', 80, 8080)
```

The first four lines tell Vagrant to set up the system using [Chef
Solo](http://www.opscode.com/chef/), and they tell Chef to use the cookbooks we
downloaded from GitHub and to use the "omeka" recipe. The last two lines tell
Vagrant to set up port forwarding so we can access the web server and database
from the host machine, without needing to log onto the VM.

The `chef.json.merge!` part tell it to download Omeka from the GitHub, using
the "stable-1.4" branch. It tells it to also download the "dark" theme and the
"BagIt" and "Dropbox" plugins, as well as the default plugins. Currently, this
only works with Git repositories.

It also has a Hash to check out a Subversion repository. These look just like
the Git Hashes, but they also include a :type key value the value 'svn' and the
keys :svn_username and :svn_password.

### Install Information

You can also supply information for the installation page in the Vagrantfile.
This information is included in the `chef.json.merge!` expression, keyed by
these fields:

 * `:username` — Default Superuser Account Username *(required)*
 * `:password` — Default Superuser Account Password *(required)*
 * `:super_email` — Default Superuser Account Email *(required)*
 * `:administrator_email` — Site Administrator Email *(required)*
 * `:site_title` — Site Title *(required)*
 * `:description` — Site Description
 * `:copyright` — Site Copyright Information
 * `:author` — Site Author Information
 * `:tag_delimiter` — Tag Delimiter *(default is ',')*
 * `:fullsize_constraint` — Fullsize Image Size *(required, default is 800)*
 * `:thumbnail_constraint` — Thumbnail Size *(required, default is 200)*
 * `:square_thumbnail_constraint` — Square Thumbnail Size *(required, default
   is 200)*
 * `:per_page_admin` — Items Per Page (admin) *(required, default is 10)*
 * `:per_page_public` — Items Per Page (public) *(required, default is 10)*
 * `:show_empty_elements` — Show Empty Elements *(default is false)*
 * `:path_to_convert` — Imagemagick Directory Path *(default is '/usr/bin')*

For example, a minimal specification would look like this:

```ruby
    chef.json.merge!({
      :omeka => {
        # ...
        :username => 'root',
        :password => 'omeka',
        :super_email => 'root@whatever.org',
        :administrator_email => 'admin@whatever.org',
        :site_title => 'Whatever Site'
      }
    })
```

### Hacks

Ah, life on the bleeding edge. There are a few issues with (as far as I can
tell) using the OpsCode with Vagrant and Chef Solo.

First, it includes a set of recipes for Windows, and Chef attempts to use this
whether you're on Windows or not. You can get around that by including this at
the top of your Vagrant file:

```ruby
if File.directory?('cookbooks/windows')
  FileUtils.remove_dir('cookbooks/windows', true)
end
```

Second, it attempts to access several attributes that don't exist, so you have
to include them in your settings, whether you need them or not. Include this in
`Vagrantfile` in the `chef.json.merge!` expression:

```ruby
    chef.json.merge!({
      :omeka => {
        # ...
      },
      :domain => [],
      :openldap => {}
    })
```

### Set up Omeka

Umm. There used to be stuff you had to do for this, but the Chef recipe takes
care of all that now.

### Start the VM

Everything's in place. Now it's time to start the VM. From the console, just
enter this command:

```bash
vagrant up
```

A lot of lines will scroll by. Many minutes will pass. Apache, PHP, and MySQL
will be installed. When you get your prompt back, you should be ready to go.

You probably missed it, but these lines were near the beginning of all that
output:

```
[default] -- mysql: 3306 => 3333 (adapter 1)
[default] -- apache2: 80 => 8080 (adapter 1)
[default] -- ssh: 22 => 2222 (adapter 1)
```

These tell how you can communicate with your newly minted VM. Since it's using
port forwarding, you can pretend like you're talking to your host box, but
using the ports listed above:

```bash
mysql -uomeka -pomeka --protocol=TCP --port=3333 omeka
open http://localhost:8080/
vagrant ssh
```

### Finishing the Omeka Installation

If you didn't supply the information in the Vagrantfile, then you'll need to
finish setting up Omeka now. Just point your browser to http://localhost:8080
running on the VM and fill in the installation information like you normally
would. Nothing special here.

### Developing

The Omeka code running the site is on your host machine, in the omeka/
directory that you created above. You can put the plugins and themes that you
want to use into there, and you can edit them as you like.

### Closing Down

When you're done for the day and you want your resources back, you can just
suspend the VM by calling this:

```bash
vagrant suspend
```

When you're done with the project and you want to destroy the VM, the database,
and everything on it, give this command:

```bash
vagrant destroy
```

## Rakefile

You can use the Rakefile by copying it into your Vagrant project directory. Or
better yet, create a link to it from that directory or import it a primary
Rakefile in your project directory.

> **Note**: Unless otherwise noted, all paths below are paths *on the VM*. That
> is, `<project-directory>/subdir/` should be `/vagrant/subdir/`.

Here are the targets defined in this Rakefile. This briefly describes what each
target does, the command-line arguments each accepts, and sample usage:

### rake phpunit

This runs [phpunit](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/phpunit/) on a file.

 * **base_dir** — The directory to run phpunit in.
 * **phpunit_xml** — The phpunit.xml file relative to base_dir to configure the
   run.
 * **target** — The class or PHP file relative to base_dir to run the tests on.
 * **coverage** — The directory to put the HTML coverage reports into.

Example:

```bash
rake phpunit base_dir=/vagrant/site/plugins/SimplePages/tests \
             phpunit_xml=phpunit.xml \
             target=AllTests.php
```

### rake phpdoc

This runs [PHP Documentor](http://www.phpdoc.org/) on a directory.

 * **base_dir** — The directory to run phpdoc in.
 * **output_dir** — The output directory.

```bash
rake phpdoc base_dir=/vagrant/site/plugins/BagIt \
            output_dir=/vagrant/docs
```

### rake phpmd

This run [PHP Mess Detector](http://phpmd.org/) on a directory.

 * **base_dir** — The directory to run phpmd in.
 * **output_dir** — The output directory

```bash
rake phpmd base_dir=/vagrant/site/plugins/BagIt \
           output_dir=/vagrant/phpmd
```

### rake pdepend

Create a [PHP Depend](http://pdepend.org/) static code analysis report.

 * **base_dir** — The directory to analyze.
 * **output_dir** — The output directory.

```bash
rake pdepend base_dir=/vagrant/site/plugins/BagIt \
             output_dir=/vagrant/pdepend
```

### rake phpcpd

Generate a [PHP Copy/Paste
Detection](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/phpcpd/tree/master) report.

 * **base_dir** — The directory to analyze.
 * **output_dir** — The output directory.

```base
rake phpcpd base_dir=/vagrant/site/plugins/BagIt \
            output_dir=/vagrant/phpcpd
```

### rake phpcs

Generate a [PHP Code
Sniffer](http://pear.php.net/package/PHP_CodeSniffer/redirected) report.

 * **base_dir** — The directory to analyze.
 * **output_dir** — The output directory.
 * **standard** — The standard to check against (default is 'Zend').

```bash
rake phpcs base_dir=/vagrant/site/plugins/BagIt \
           output_dir=/vagrant/phpcs \
           standard=Zend
```

### Overriding Tasks

If you don't want to have to provide all of the options everytime, you can
include this Rakefile in your Rakefile and provide the default there. For
instance, if you've checked this cookbook repository out to `slab-cookbooks`,
you could create a Rakefile with these contents:

```ruby
import "slab-cookbooks/Rakefile"

namespace :bagit do

  desc 'Call PHP Mess Detector on BagIt.'
  task :phpmd do
    ENV['base_dir'] = '/vagrant/omeka/plugins/BagIt'
    ENV['output_dir'] = '/vagrant/phpmd'
    Rake::Task['phpmd'].invoke
  end

end
```

Then you could simply call this from your directory:

```bash
rake bagit:phpmd
```


## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by
applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the
License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific
language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

*Author*:      Eric Rochester <err8n@virginia.edu>
*Copyright*:   2010 The Board and Visitors of the University of Virginia
*License*:     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html Apache 2 License

