
# Description

This installs and configures an Omeka instance.

# Requirements

## Platform

 * CentOS
 * Ubuntu (Lucid)

This will probably work with other platforms, too, but I haven't tested them.

## Cookbooks

From https://github.com/opscode/cookbooks:

 * apache2
 * php
 * mysql
 * imagemagick

# Attributes

Attributes for the basic Omeka files installation:

 * `node[:omeka][:omeka_dir]` — The directory in the VM that contains the Omeka
   instance. This defaults to "/vagrant/omeka".
 * `node[:omeka][:version]` — If given, then this version of Omeka will be
   check out of GitHub. This can be 'HEAD', 'master', a version number tag
   (e.g., '1.4.1'), or any branch in the repository. This will also check out
   the plugins for that version. If not given, this doesn't download anything,
   because it assumes that you will take care of getting Omeka.
 * `node[:omeka][:themes]` — This is a list of themes to install. Each theme is
   a JSON object (Ruby Hash) that contains the keys "name", "url", and
   "revision". The name is the name of the theme and the name of the
   subdirectory to create under `:omeka_dir/themes`. The URL should point to a
   Git repository containing the theme. The revision is the Git reference to
   check out.
 * `node[:omeka][:plugins]` — This is a list of plugins to install. Each plug
   in is a JSON object (Ruby Hash) that contains the keys "name", "url", and
   "revision". The name is the name of the plug in and the name of the
   subdirectory to create under `:omeak_dir/plugins`. The URL should point to a
   Git repository containing the plugin. The revision is the Git reference to
   check out.

Attributes for databases:

 * `node[:omeka][:mysql_user]` — The MySQL user to create to access the Omeka
   database. This defaults to "omeka".
 * `node[:omeka][:mysql_password]` — The password for
   `node[:omeka][:mysql_user]`. This also defaults to "omeka".
 * `node[:omeka][:mysql_db]` — The database to create for the Omeka site. This
   defaults to "omeka".
 * `node[:omeka][:mysql_prefix]` — The prefix for Omeka put on its tables in
   the database. This default to "omeka_".

 * `node[:omeka][:test_user]` — The MySQL user to create for the test Omeka
   database. This defaults to "omeka".
 * `node[:omeka][:test_password]` — The password for
   `node[:omeka][:test_user]`. This also defaults to "omeka".
 * `node[:omeka][:test_db]` — The database to create for running unit tests on
   the Omeka site. This defaults to "omeka".

Attributes for site installation:

 * `node[:omeka][:username]` — Default Superuser Account Username *(required)*
 * `node[:omeka][:password]` — Default Superuser Account Password *(required)*
 * `node[:omeka][:super_email]` — Default Superuser Account Email *(required)*
 * `node[:omeka][:administrator_email]` — Site Administrator Email *(required)*
 * `node[:omeka][:site_title]` — Site Title *(required)*
 * `node[:omeka][:description]` — Site Description
 * `node[:omeka][:copyright]` — Site Copyright Information
 * `node[:omeka][:author]` — Site Author Information
 * `node[:omeka][:tag_delimiter]` — Tag Delimiter *(default is ',')*
 * `node[:omeka][:fullsize_constraint]` — Fullsize Image Size *(required,
   default is 800)*
 * `node[:omeka][:thumbnail_constraint]` — Thumbnail Size *(required, default
   is 200)*
 * `node[:omeka][:square_thumbnail_constraint]` — Square Thumbnail Size
   *(required, default is 200)*
 * `node[:omeka][:per_page_admin]` — Items Per Page (admin) *(required, default
   is 10)*
 * `node[:omeka][:per_page_public]` — Items Per Page (public) *(required,
   default is 10)*
 * `node[:omeka][:show_empty_elements]` — Show Empty Elements *(default is
   false)*
 * `node[:omeka][:path_to_convert]` — Imagemagick Directory Path *(default is
   '/usr/bin')*

# Installed

This recipe installs these systems:

 * Apache
 * PHP
 * MySQL
 * ImageMagick

It also installs a number of utilities for working with PHP code:

 * [PhpDocumentor](http://www.phpdoc.org/)
 * [PHPUnit](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/phpunit/)
 * [phpcpd](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/phpcpd/)
 * [PHP_PMD](http://phpmd.org/)
 * [PHP_CodeSniffer](http://pear.php.net/package/PHP_CodeSniffer/redirected)
 * [Xdebug](http://xdebug.org/)

# License and Author

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by
applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the
License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific
language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

*Author*:      Eric Rochester <[err8n@virginia.edu](mailto:err8n@virginia.edu)> <br />
*Copyright*:   2011 The Board and Visitors of the University of Virginia <br />
*License*:     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html Apache 2 License <br />

